---
layout: post
title:  "Natas Level 22 → Level 23"
date:   2021-05-30 15:42:57
categories: ctf wargames web-security
tags: wargames ctf overthewire web-security
series: "OverTheWire: Natas"
excerpt: Matchmaker
mathjax: false
---

## Level Goal
Excluding the URL and username, the Level Goal section is blank for the Natas ctf.


## Solution
This level allows us to submit a password and view the source code.

```php
if(array_key_exists("passwd",$_REQUEST)){
    if(strstr($_REQUEST["passwd"],"iloveyou") && ($_REQUEST["passwd"] > 10 )){
        echo "<br>The credentials for the next level are:<br>";
        echo "<pre>Username: natas24 Password: <censored></pre>";
    }
    else{
        echo "<br>Wrong!<br>";
    }
} 
```

To get access to the credentials, we need to pass a key with the name passwd. The value must contain "iloveyou" and be greater than 10. To do this, we need to understand how strstr works and what type juggling is.

### strstr
The official documentation for [strstr](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.strstr.php) states that strstr matches the first occurrence of the search term. It then returns everything from the search term to the end of the search space. Perhaps this is better explained with an example:

```php
<?
    $example = "abciloveyou123";
    $res = strstr($example, "iloveyou");
    print $res;
```

result:
```
iloveyou123
```

### Type juggling
The official documentation for [type juggling](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.types.type-juggling.php) states that php does not support static typing of variables. The type is dynamically set depending on the value assigned to the variable. The example on the page shows that multiplying a number with a string that starts with a number returns the same result that would have been expected if both sides of the multiplication sign had been numbers. 

There are additional links on this page to further explain how this works, but this should be enough for us to solve this level.

Since strstr matches the first occurance to the end of the search space, the iloveyou string must be the last part of the password. Since the second condition is performing a math operation on the value stored in passwd, we can prepend a number greater than 10 to iloveyou.

Here's the password I used:
```
42iloveyou
```

Click the login button to get the credentials for the next level.
