---
layout: post
title:  "Natas Level 20 → Level 21"
date:   2021-05-30 11:31:33
categories: ctf wargames web-security
tags: wargames ctf overthewire web-security
series: "OverTheWire: Natas"
excerpt: Sharing is caring
mathjax: false
---

## Level Goal
Excluding the URL and username, the Level Goal section is blank for the Natas ctf.


## Solution
This level starts off with us logged in automatically as a regular user. There's a link to a "co-located" site, and a link to the source code. We'll need to work with both sites in order to complete this level. To try an keep things clear, I'll refer to this site as **Main**, and the site at http://natas21-experimenter.natas.labs.overthewire.org as **Experimenter**.

Looking at the source code on Main we see there's very little going on. It checks the SESSION variable to see if there's a key named admin, and if its value is set to 1. If it is, we're greeted as admin and given the credentials to the next level. If key-value pair is missing or set differently, we're greeted as a regular user. Let's go look at the Experimenter site.

The Experimenter site includes the ability to adjust properties of a test element, a link to Main, and a link to the source code.  Let's look at the selected portions of the source.


The code below takes any data passed in with the URL and stores it in SESSION variable as a key-value pair.
```php
// if update was submitted, store it
if(array_key_exists("submit", $_REQUEST)) {
    foreach($_REQUEST as $key => $val) {
    $_SESSION[$key] = $val;
    }
}
```

The foreach loop filters the SESSION variable for the key-value pairs used to populate the form. If a key-value pair is not used, it's placed back into SESSION. 

```php
// only allow these keys
$validkeys = array("align" => "center", "fontsize" => "100%", "bgcolor" => "yellow");
...
foreach($validkeys as $key => $defval) {
    $val = $defval;
    if(array_key_exists($key, $_SESSION)) {
    $val = $_SESSION[$key];
    } else {
    $_SESSION[$key] = $val;
    }
    ...
}
```

Let's copy the PHPSESSID from Main and paste into Experimenter. We should be able to create the admin key-value pair on Experimenter by appending the following to the URL and pressing Enter:
```
?admin=1&submit=1
```

Go back to Main and reload the page, and the credentials for the next level will be shown.
