---
layout: post
title:  "Bandit Level 25 → Level 26"
date:   2021-05-23 13:03:46
categories: ctf wargames linux
tags: wargames ctf overthewire linux
series: "OverTheWire: Bandit"
excerpt: Shell games
mathjax: false
---

## Level Goal
Logging in to bandit26 from bandit25 should be fairly easy… The shell for user bandit26 is not /bin/bash, but something else. Find out what it is, how it works and how to break out of it.


## Heads Up!
Due to the configuration of the bandit26 account, you will not be able to log into it after completing this level. Once this level is complete though, you'll be logged in as bandit26. You should finish the Level 26 -> Level 27 upon completion of this level, otherwise you'll need to redo most of this level. 


## Solution
```bash
bandit25@bandit:~$ ls
bandit26.sshkey
bandit25@bandit:~$ grep bandit26 /etc/passwd
bandit26:x:11026:11026:bandit level 26:/home/bandit26:/usr/bin/showtext
bandit25@bandit:~$ cat /usr/bin/showtext
```

Contents of showtext
```bash
bandit25@bandit:~$ cat /usr/bin/showtext
#!/bin/sh
export TERM=linux
more ~/text.txt
exit 0
```

Here we see **showtext** uses more to output the banner before exiting. We can get to bash by shrinking the terminal window down to a very small size and using a command within more to launch vi. I had about 3 lines of text visible on my screen. If your screen is not small enough, you'll be logged out.

With your screen resized, log in as bandit26 using the provided ssh key.

```bash
bandit25@bandit:~$ ssh -i bandit26.sshkey bandit26@localhost
```

You should now see more was interrupted while trying to display the contents of text.txt. Press **v** to open vi. You can restore the size of your window to its default.

We'll need to create a variable that holds the pathing information for the bash shell since the slashes in the path would otherwise be interpreted as a pattern. Afterward, we'll use that variable to execute the shell.

If you're not familiar with vi, note that the first character is a colon and must be entered. 

Enter the following:
```
:set shell=/bin/bash
:shell
```

Now that you have a bash prompt, you can cat out the password for bandit26.

```bash
bandit26@bandit:~$ cat /etc/bandit_pass/bandit26
5------------------------------Z
```

## Explanation
The trick used in Level 18 -> Level 19 to force a shell of our choosing does not work for this level, so we're forced to figure out another way in. The first thing we need to do is figure out what shell is bandit26 using. Using grep on /etc/passwd we can see the shell is /usr/bin/showtext. 

Since this is a nonstandard shell, we need to look into it.  Cat'ing the file, we see that it's a script that calls the more pager. Reviewing the man page for more, we see there's an option to open vi. The vi editor is capable of interacting with the operating system without needing to leave the editor.

To make this work, we need to be able to prevent more from completely outputting the contents of the file to the screen and exiting, hence the need for resizing the screen.